The data shows ridership for 4 years, 2018-2021, in 30 minute increments for every single station in the Boston public transit 
network. In essence, it tracks gated entries, or just the amount of swipes that each fare gate receives in that half hour period. 
It’s a useful metric to see how ridership changes throughout the day. There aren’t many ethical concerns because our data is just 
from the Boston transit system. It only focuses on 3 busy downtown Boston interchange stations, which leaves out many neighborhoods 
and a significant amount of the metro population which introduces a considerable level of bias. Despite this, our model relates to 
how the MBTA system itself is designed, where all of the lines lead towards downtown. In addition, we took the year 2020 out of 
consideration since that was an abnormal year for the system which doesn’t reflect how riders use the T on a regular basis. In our 
initial calculations, we focused on Government Center, Back Bay, and Downtown Crossing. Looking at the plots with the line of best 
fit, Downtown Crossing appears to be the best for predicting ridership. The linear regression has an R2 score of .693 which is much 
better than Government Center and Back Bay with scores of .246 and .465 respectively. This suggests that Downtown crossing, although 
wouldn’t make the best model, is still better than the other stations for predicting ridership. The MSE for each of these was very 
insightful. For Government Center, it was 1460; for Back Bay, it was 3496, and for Downtown Crossing it was 1808. The lowest, 
surprisingly, was Govt Center, meaning that the predictions for it were the closest to the actual ridership numbers. For Back Bay it 
was quite the opposite. There were many factors at play here, especially since the data was from all months for 3 years - 
2018, 2019, and 2021, and ridership understandably ebbs and flows depending on the month as well, leading to the high variance. In 
addition, Back Bay has a bus terminal and a few Amtrak and commuter rail platforms which might affect the data on busy travel days 
like holidays, etc. That would change the MSE, which is highly affected by outliers. When looking at the residual plots, we focused 
on the data from Downtown Crossing. Unfortunately, the Residuals vs Hour of Day and Residuals vs Order provide problematic results. 
Firstly there appears to be funneling in the Residuals vs Hour of the Day which violates the assumption of linearity. In addition, 
the Residuals vs Order plot shows an extremely strong positive linear association between the index of each data point and the 
residuals. This is clear in the original plot of data which has a generally exponential trend. This questions the independence of 
our data and may require us to factor in another/different variable when predicting ridership. Finally, the residuals histogram 
shows a fairly normal distribution with a slight right skew. However, this skew does not appear to be flawed enough to violate the 
normality assumption. For our next steps, we think a linear regression model is not the right step, because there’s more complexity 
here throughout the day. Generally the stations have a morning peak and a larger rush hour afternoon peak, which a linear regression 
can’t quite account for. In addition, there are more factors that contribute to ridership than just the time of day, like the time 
of year. Moving forward, we hope to include these considerations when choosing our data and hope to adjust our model to better fit 
the data. A multiple polynomial model might be more fruitful to get the peaks and low points in transit data. It would take in 
2-3 x variables like time of day, time of the year, and route (green line, orange line, etc.).